Add tinker backend. (#448)
modelscope/Trinity-RFT: examples/tinker/README.md

  tinker:
    enable: true
    base_model: meta-llama/Llama-3.2-3B
cluster:
  node_num: 1
  gpu_per_node: 8
buffer:
  batch_size: 96
  total_epochs: 1
  explorer_input:
    taskset:
      name: taskset
      storage_type: file
      path: openai/gsm8k
      split: train
      subset_name: main
      format:
        prompt_key: question
        response_key: answer
      rollout_args:
        temperature: 1.0
        logprobs: 0
    eval_tasksets: []
    default_workflow_type: math_workflow
  trainer_input:
    experience_buffer:
      name: experience_buffer
      storage_type: queue
      replay_buffer:

>         enable: false

Reviewer: Default values, can be omited?

# Trinity with Tinker Backend

This example demonstrates how to use Trinity with the [Tinker](https://thinkingmachines.ai/tinker/) backend, which enables model training on devices without GPUs.

## Setup Instructions

### 1. API Key Configuration
Before starting Ray, you must set the `TRINITY_API_KEY` environment variable to your Tinker API key to enable proper access to Tinker's API:

```bash
export TRINITY_API_KEY=your_tinker_api_key
```

### 2. Configuration File
Configure the Tinker backend in your YAML configuration file by setting the `model.tinker` parameters as shown below:

```yaml
model:
  tinker:
    enable: true
    base_model: null
    rank: 32
    seed: null
    train_mlp: true
    train_attn: true
    train_unembed: true
```

### 3. Configuration Parameters Explained

> - **`tinker`**: Tinker-specific configuration section. **Important**: When Tinker is enabled, any LoRA configuration settings will be ignored.

Reviewer 2: Would be nice to specify "LoRA settings under which part of the yaml config will be ignored" (since tinker also has its own LoRA settings)

  lora_configs:
  - name: lora
    lora_rank: 32
    lora_alpha: 32
cluster:
  node_num: 1
  gpu_per_node: 8
buffer:
  batch_size: 96
  total_epochs: 1
  explorer_input:
    taskset:
      name: taskset
      storage_type: file
      path: openai/gsm8k
      split: train
      subset_name: main
      format:
        prompt_key: question
        response_key: answer
      rollout_args:
        temperature: 1.0
        logprobs: 0
    eval_tasksets: []
    default_workflow_type: math_workflow
  trainer_input:
    experience_buffer:
      name: experience_buffer
      storage_type: queue
      replay_buffer:
        enable: false
        priority_fn: linear_decay
        reuse_cooldown_time: null
        priority_fn_args:

>           decay: 2.0

Reviewer 2: These lines can be deleted

explorer:
  runner_per_model: 16
  rollout_model:
    engine_num: 4
    tensor_parallel_size: 1
    enforce_eager: false
    enable_prefix_caching: false
    enable_chunked_prefill: false
    gpu_memory_utilization: 0.9
    dtype: bfloat16
    seed: 42
    enable_thinking: false
    enable_history: false
    enable_openai_api: false
    enable_auto_tool_choice: false
    tool_call_parser: null
    reasoning_parser: null
  auxiliary_models: []
  eval_interval: 1000
trainer:
  trainer_type: verl
  save_interval: 100
  enable_preview: true
  grad_clip: 1.0
  max_token_len_per_gpu: 16384
monitor:
  monitor_type: wandb
synchronizer:
  sync_method: checkpoint
  sync_style: fixed
  sync_interval: 1
  sync_offset: 1
  sync_timeout: 1200
```

</details>

### Observations

Since **Llama-3.2-3B** is a base (non-instruct-tuned) model, it has limited ability to follow formatting instructions. Additionally, we trained for only **one epoch**. As a result, both backends achieved final rewards just slightly above **0.1**.

> However, the training curves clearly show an **upward trend in reward**, indicating successful learning. The results are visualized below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since Llama-3.2-3B is a base (non-instruct-tuned) model, it has limited ability to follow formatting instructions. Additionally, we trained for only **one epoch**. As a result, both backends achieved final rewards just slightly above 0.1. Nonetheless, the training curves show a clear upward trend in reward, indicating successful learning. The results are visualized below:
```
